---
title: Insert title here
key: d11273f1ad194664904c6212fe921d45

---
## Fitting ARMA models

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "34934da233"
```

`@lower_third`

name: James Fulton
title: Climate Informatics Researcher, University of Edinburgh


`@script`
Now we know more about AR, MA and ARMA models in this chapter we will learn how to generate synthetic data and fit these models


---
## Generating Time Series Data

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "fb00859de8"
center_content: false
```

`@part1`
```python
from statsmodels.tsa.arima_process import arma_generate_sample
arma_generate_sample(ar, ma, nsample, sigma=1)
```{{1}}

```python
import numpy as np
ar_coeffs = np.array([0.5])
ma_coeffs = np.array([])
```{{2}}

```python
ar = np.hstack([1, -ar_coeffs])
ma = np.hstack([1,  ma_coeffs])
```{{3}}


`@script`
Statsmodels has great an inbuilt function which will generate AR, MA or ARMA synthetic data. This is the arma_generate_sample function which import here. Into this function we need to pass ar (autoregressive coefficients), ma (moving average coefficients), nsamples (the number of samples to generate) and sigma (the standard deviation of the noise)

Here we will generate data which has a lag-one autoregressive coefficient of 0.5 and no moving average coefficients. This equates to a AR(1) model. To do this we make a numpy array with a single element of 0.5 in it for the autoregressive coefficients and an empty numpy array for the moving average coefficients. We need to give the generator function both.

There are two things we need to be careful of when trying to use this function. 

The first is that we need to specify the lag 0 coefficient of MA and AR. You will almost always set this to 1 in practice and the situations where you won't are beyond the scope of this course.

The second thing is that the arma_generate_sample requires you to give it the negative of the autoregressive coefficients for lag greater than 1. 

We will use the numpy hstack function here to add the lag 1 coefficients to ar and ma and make sure we are passing the minus of the ar coefficients.


---
## Generating Time Series Data

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "734c4219ea"
```

`@part1`
```python
nsample = 100
sigma=1

data = arma_generate_sample(ar, ma, nsample, sigma=sigma)
```

```python
array([ 0.05185635, -0.44311913, -1.05776731, -0.03332579, -0.68884263,
       -0.26902862,  0.98686746,  0.27028874,  0.76555383, ...])
```


`@script`
Finally, we will choose 100 samples and the noise standard deviation of 1 and generate some data!

The data we generate is a numpy array of values. If we plot this we can see that it behaves like we would expect


---
## Insert title here...

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "1794b225dc"
```

`@part1`



`@script`



---
## Insert title here...

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "b1120206c7"
```

`@part1`



`@script`



---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "8ca7b9d309"
```

`@script`


